README.md, before:

# References
list of links and references on architectures, best practise, methodologies and much more, trying to don't become a `disposable programmer` as well explayned by Gabriele Lana [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xM03p6A8ppU]

`I'm not a great programmer; I'm just a good programmer with great habits.` *-Kent Beck*

`I'm not losing time refactoring! I'm reducing volatility in the marginal cost of features!` *-JB Rainsberger*

`Engineering is a matter of trade offs. Computer Science Engineering is also a matter of keeping your options open`

## General links
- **Martin Fowler** [https://martinfowler.com/]
- **c2 wiki** [https://wiki.c2.com/]
- **Kent Beck on medium** [https://medium.com/@kentbeck_7670]
- **Uncle Bob Martin** [http://blog.cleancoder.com]
- **J.B. Rainsberger** [https://blog.thecodewhisperer.com/]

## Architectures
- **Clean Architecture** by Uncle Bob (2012) [https://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2012/08/13/the-clean-architecture.html]
- **Onion Architecture** by Jeffrey Palermo (2008) [https://jeffreypalermo.com/2008/07/the-onion-architecture-part-1/]
- **Hexagonal Architecture** by Alastair Cockburn (2005) [https://web.archive.org/web/20060711221010/http://alistair.cockburn.us:80/index.php/Hexagonal_architecture, https://softwarecampament.wordpress.com/portsadapters/, https://beyondxscratch.com/2017/08/19/decoupling-your-technical-code-from-your-business-logic-with-the-hexagonal-architecture-hexarch/] [https://madewithlove.be/hexagonal-architecture-demystified]

## Design
- **4 rules of simple design** by Kent Beck [https://martinfowler.com/bliki/BeckDesignRules.html]
- **iterative nature of the 4 rules** by J.B. Rainsberger [https://blog.thecodewhisperer.com/permalink/putting-an-age-old-battle-to-rest]
- **Outside-In design** by Sandro Mancuso [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fKHYBnuPApY]
- **Simple design: the least understood XP practise** by Matteo Vaccari [https://vimeo.com/351825916]
- **Refactoring: not on the backlog** by Ron Jeffries [https://ronjeffries.com/xprog/articles/refactoring-not-on-the-backlog/]
- **Let it CRASH!** (https://www.amberbit.com/blog/2019/7/26/the-misunderstanding-of-let-it-crash/)

## DDD - Domain Driven Design
- **Awesome DDD** list of everything about DDD [https://github.com/heynickc/awesome-ddd]

## SOLID principles
- **Principles of Object Oriented Design** [http://butunclebob.com/ArticleS.UncleBob.PrinciplesOfOod]
- **Dependency inversion principle** [https://www.martinfowler.com/articles/dipInTheWild.html]
- **Solid principles made easy** [https://hackernoon.com/solid-principles-made-easy-67b1246bcdf]

## TDD
- **TDD resources to start** by Matteo Vaccari [http://matteo.vaccari.name/blog/selected-tdd-resources-to-start]
- **The Transformation Priority Premise** [http://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2013/05/27/TheTransformationPriorityPremise.html]
- **Outside in TDD** by Sandro Mancuso NOTES [https://gist.github.com/xpepper/66ced102032ad479b8170d9205754519]
- **On TDD and design** by Sandro Mancuso (contains also the difference between classicist TDD and Outside In) [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KyFVA4Spcgg]
- **mockist TDD** by Gabriele Tondi (XPug Milano) [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DiYhBwc9diQ]
- **Integrated Tests Are A Scam** by JB Rainsberger [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VDfX44fZoMc] (notes: https://github.com/Icecream4U/references/blob/master/notes-on-jb-rainsberger-integration-tests-are-scam)
  + World's Best Intro to TDD course [https://online-training.jbrains.ca/p/wbitdd-01]
  + when it is safe to introduct test doubles [https://blog.thecodewhisperer.com/permalink/when-is-it-safe-to-introduce-test-doubles]
- **Some underrated elements of success for the modern programmer** by JB Rainsberger on TDD, 3 Stage of TDD, Path to Effectiveness [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mbcV_Qdb7Ts] (https://blog.jbrains.ca/permalink/a-proven-path-to-effectiveness) (notes: https://github.com/Icecream4U/references/blob/master/underrated_elements_of_success_jb_rainsberger.png)
- **Testing microservices**
  + microservice testing (https://martinfowler.com/articles/microservice-testing/)
  + ebook (https://github.com/hamvocke/testing-microservices-ebook/blob/master/testing-microservices.adoc)

#### Kata 
- *katalyst by Codurance* [https://katalyst.codurance.com/]
- *Birthday Greetings Kata by xpmatteo* [http://matteo.vaccari.name/blog/archives/154][https://github.com/xpmatteo/birthday-greetings-kata]
- *Prime factors Kata by Uncle Bob* [http://butunclebob.com/ArticleS.UncleBob.ThePrimeFactorsKata]
- *Simple design in action* by xpmatteo [https://github.com/xpmatteo/simple-design-in-action]
- *code-kata* [http://codekata.com/]
- *kata-log* [https://kata-log.rocks/]
- *coding dojo* [http://codingdojo.org/kata/]

**Forcing you to abandon your confort zone**
- *Corey Haines coderetreat constraints* [https://github.com/Icecream4U/references/blob/master/CoreyHaines-code-retreat-constraints.md]
- *Object Calisthenics* [https://www.cs.helsinki.fi/u/luontola/tdd-2009/ext/ObjectCalisthenics.pdf]

## Test
- **Test pyramid** [https://martinfowler.com/articles/practical-test-pyramid.html]

## Microservices
- **Microservices Guide** by Martin Fowler [https://www.martinfowler.com/microservices/]
- **Microservices top 3 errors** by Gabriele Lana [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_fszoPz7muU][**Notes:** https://github.com/Icecream4U/references/blob/master/NOTES-microservices_top_3_errors_by_GabrieleLana]
- **CAP Theorem** by Bruno Bossola [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oo2nlUXIJGE]

## Agile stuff
- [Manifesto for Agile Software Development](https://agilemanifesto.org/)
- [Manifesto for Software Craftmanship](http://manifesto.softwarecraftsmanship.org/)

## Organization
- **On pair programming** [https://martinfowler.com/articles/on-pair-programming.html]
- **Event Storming cheat sheet** [https://github.com/wwerner/event-storming-cheatsheet#execution]
- **Socio-technical practice as craft** by Michael Featers [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4HdgYZ4p7qc] (on Conway's law and Mythical Man Months and so on)
- **Hacking Your Work Life Balance** by Jennifer Wadella [https://marc-bouvier.github.io/2018/08/13/hacking-your-work-life-balance-Jennifer-Wadella/]
- **Elastic: on scaling a distributed enigneering team** [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BZ-dQOUF3ag]
- **Spotify engineering culture** [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R2o-Xm3UVjs&list=PLi9Tf6XBqiBM1RpZMZQjRjnFUq4VqqvEG&index=11&t=0s]

## DSLs
- *Complete Guide* by Federico Tomassetti [https://tomassetti.me/domain-specific-languages/]
- *Domain Specific Language Guide* by Martin Fowler [https://martinfowler.com/dsl.html]
- *Metaprogrammazione con JavaParser* by Luca Molteni [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WMZKIHTI9c]

## DevOps
- **Twelve Factor App** [https://12factor.net/]

Commit message:

Update README.md with Alberto Brandolini quote

README.md, after:

# References
list of links and references on architectures, best practise, methodologies and much more, trying to don't become a `disposable programmer` as well explayned by Gabriele Lana [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xM03p6A8ppU]

`I'm not a great programmer; I'm just a good programmer with great habits.` *-Kent Beck*

`I'm not losing time refactoring! I'm reducing volatility in the marginal cost of features!` *-JB Rainsberger*

`Software development is a learning process, working code is a side effect` *-Alberto Brandolini

`Engineering is a matter of trade offs. Computer Science Engineering is also a matter of keeping your options open`

## General links
- **Martin Fowler** [https://martinfowler.com/]
- **c2 wiki** [https://wiki.c2.com/]
- **Kent Beck on medium** [https://medium.com/@kentbeck_7670]
- **Uncle Bob Martin** [http://blog.cleancoder.com]
- **J.B. Rainsberger** [https://blog.thecodewhisperer.com/]

## Architectures
- **Clean Architecture** by Uncle Bob (2012) [https://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2012/08/13/the-clean-architecture.html]
- **Onion Architecture** by Jeffrey Palermo (2008) [https://jeffreypalermo.com/2008/07/the-onion-architecture-part-1/]
- **Hexagonal Architecture** by Alastair Cockburn (2005) [https://web.archive.org/web/20060711221010/http://alistair.cockburn.us:80/index.php/Hexagonal_architecture, https://softwarecampament.wordpress.com/portsadapters/, https://beyondxscratch.com/2017/08/19/decoupling-your-technical-code-from-your-business-logic-with-the-hexagonal-architecture-hexarch/] [https://madewithlove.be/hexagonal-architecture-demystified]

## Design
- **4 rules of simple design** by Kent Beck [https://martinfowler.com/bliki/BeckDesignRules.html]
- **iterative nature of the 4 rules** by J.B. Rainsberger [https://blog.thecodewhisperer.com/permalink/putting-an-age-old-battle-to-rest]
- **Outside-In design** by Sandro Mancuso [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fKHYBnuPApY]
- **Simple design: the least understood XP practise** by Matteo Vaccari [https://vimeo.com/351825916]
- **Refactoring: not on the backlog** by Ron Jeffries [https://ronjeffries.com/xprog/articles/refactoring-not-on-the-backlog/]
- **Let it CRASH!** (https://www.amberbit.com/blog/2019/7/26/the-misunderstanding-of-let-it-crash/)

## DDD - Domain Driven Design
- **Awesome DDD** list of everything about DDD [https://github.com/heynickc/awesome-ddd]

## SOLID principles
- **Principles of Object Oriented Design** [http://butunclebob.com/ArticleS.UncleBob.PrinciplesOfOod]
- **Dependency inversion principle** [https://www.martinfowler.com/articles/dipInTheWild.html]
- **Solid principles made easy** [https://hackernoon.com/solid-principles-made-easy-67b1246bcdf]

## TDD
- **TDD resources to start** by Matteo Vaccari [http://matteo.vaccari.name/blog/selected-tdd-resources-to-start]
- **The Transformation Priority Premise** [http://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2013/05/27/TheTransformationPriorityPremise.html]
- **Outside in TDD** by Sandro Mancuso NOTES [https://gist.github.com/xpepper/66ced102032ad479b8170d9205754519]
- **On TDD and design** by Sandro Mancuso (contains also the difference between classicist TDD and Outside In) [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KyFVA4Spcgg]
- **mockist TDD** by Gabriele Tondi (XPug Milano) [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DiYhBwc9diQ]
- **Integrated Tests Are A Scam** by JB Rainsberger [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VDfX44fZoMc] (notes: https://github.com/Icecream4U/references/blob/master/notes-on-jb-rainsberger-integration-tests-are-scam)
  + World's Best Intro to TDD course [https://online-training.jbrains.ca/p/wbitdd-01]
  + when it is safe to introduct test doubles [https://blog.thecodewhisperer.com/permalink/when-is-it-safe-to-introduce-test-doubles]
- **Some underrated elements of success for the modern programmer** by JB Rainsberger on TDD, 3 Stage of TDD, Path to Effectiveness [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mbcV_Qdb7Ts] (https://blog.jbrains.ca/permalink/a-proven-path-to-effectiveness) (notes: https://github.com/Icecream4U/references/blob/master/underrated_elements_of_success_jb_rainsberger.png)
- **Testing microservices**
  + microservice testing (https://martinfowler.com/articles/microservice-testing/)
  + ebook (https://github.com/hamvocke/testing-microservices-ebook/blob/master/testing-microservices.adoc)

#### Kata 
- *katalyst by Codurance* [https://katalyst.codurance.com/]
- *Birthday Greetings Kata by xpmatteo* [http://matteo.vaccari.name/blog/archives/154][https://github.com/xpmatteo/birthday-greetings-kata]
- *Prime factors Kata by Uncle Bob* [http://butunclebob.com/ArticleS.UncleBob.ThePrimeFactorsKata]
- *Simple design in action* by xpmatteo [https://github.com/xpmatteo/simple-design-in-action]
- *code-kata* [http://codekata.com/]
- *kata-log* [https://kata-log.rocks/]
- *coding dojo* [http://codingdojo.org/kata/]

**Forcing you to abandon your confort zone**
- *Corey Haines coderetreat constraints* [https://github.com/Icecream4U/references/blob/master/CoreyHaines-code-retreat-constraints.md]
- *Object Calisthenics* [https://www.cs.helsinki.fi/u/luontola/tdd-2009/ext/ObjectCalisthenics.pdf]

## Test
- **Test pyramid** [https://martinfowler.com/articles/practical-test-pyramid.html]

## Microservices
- **Microservices Guide** by Martin Fowler [https://www.martinfowler.com/microservices/]
- **Microservices top 3 errors** by Gabriele Lana [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_fszoPz7muU][**Notes:** https://github.com/Icecream4U/references/blob/master/NOTES-microservices_top_3_errors_by_GabrieleLana]
- **CAP Theorem** by Bruno Bossola [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oo2nlUXIJGE]

## Agile stuff
- [Manifesto for Agile Software Development](https://agilemanifesto.org/)
- [Manifesto for Software Craftmanship](http://manifesto.softwarecraftsmanship.org/)

## Organization
- **On pair programming** [https://martinfowler.com/articles/on-pair-programming.html]
- **Event Storming cheat sheet** [https://github.com/wwerner/event-storming-cheatsheet#execution]
- **Socio-technical practice as craft** by Michael Featers [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4HdgYZ4p7qc] (on Conway's law and Mythical Man Months and so on)
- **Hacking Your Work Life Balance** by Jennifer Wadella [https://marc-bouvier.github.io/2018/08/13/hacking-your-work-life-balance-Jennifer-Wadella/]
- **Elastic: on scaling a distributed enigneering team** [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BZ-dQOUF3ag]
- **Spotify engineering culture** [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R2o-Xm3UVjs&list=PLi9Tf6XBqiBM1RpZMZQjRjnFUq4VqqvEG&index=11&t=0s]

## DSLs
- *Complete Guide* by Federico Tomassetti [https://tomassetti.me/domain-specific-languages/]
- *Domain Specific Language Guide* by Martin Fowler [https://martinfowler.com/dsl.html]
- *Metaprogrammazione con JavaParser* by Luca Molteni [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WMZKIHTI9c]

## DevOps
- **Twelve Factor App** [https://12factor.net/]
